繁體中文版 (Traditional Chinese)
1. 那時，天下人的口音言語，都是一樣。
2. 他們往東邊遷移的時候，在示拿地遇見一片平原，就住在那裡。
3. 他們彼此商量說，來罷，我們要做磚，把磚燒透了。他們就拿磚當石頭，又拿石漆當灰泥。
4. 他們說，來罷，我們要建造一座城，和一座塔，塔頂通天，為了傳揚我們的名，免得我們分散在全地上。
5. 耶和華降臨要看看世人所建造的城和塔。
6. 耶和華說，看哪，他們成為一樣的人民，都是一樣的言語，如今既做起這事來，以後他們所要做的事，就沒有不成就的了。
7. 我們下去，在那裡變亂他們的口音，使他們的言語，彼此不通。
8. 於是耶和華使他們從那裡分散在全地上．他們就停工，不造那城了。
9. 因為耶和華在那裡變亂天下人的言語，使眾人分散在全地上，所以那城名叫巴別。〔就是變亂的意思〕

简体中文 (Simplified Chinese)
1. 那时，天下人的口音言语，都是一样。
2. 他们往东边迁移的时候，在示拿地遇见一片平原，就住在那里。
3. 他们彼此商量说，来罢，我们要做砖，把砖烧透了。他们就拿砖当石头，又拿石漆当灰泥。
4. 他们说，来罗，我们要建造一座城，和一座塔，塔顶通天，为了传扬我们的名，免得我们分散在全地上。
5. 耶和华降临要看看世人所建造的城和塔。
6. 耶和华说，看哪，他们成为一样的人民，都是一样的言语，如今既做起这事来，以后他们所要做的事，就没有不成就的了。
7. 我们下去，在那里变乱他们的口音，使他们的言语，彼此不通。
8. 于是耶和华使他们从那里分散在全地上。他们就停工，不造那城了。
9. 因为耶和华在那里变乱天下人的言语，使众人分散在全地上，所以那城名叫巴别。（就是变乱的意思

Gàidhlig (Scottish Gaelic)
1. Agus bha an talamh uile de aon teanga, agus na h-aon fhacail aig gach neach.
2. Agus nuair a bha iad air an turas on àird an ear, fhuair iad còmhnard ann an talamh Shinair; agus ghabh iad còmhnaidh an sin.
3. Agus thubhairt iad gach aon ri chèile, Thigibh, dèanamaid clachan-creadha, agus làn-loisgeamaid iad. Agus bha a' clach-chreadha aca airson cloiche, agus bha làthach aca airson aoil.
4. Agus thubhairt iad, Thigibh, togamaid dhuinn fhèin baile, agus tùr, aig am bi a mhullach a' ruigheachd gu nèamh; agus dèanamaid dhuinn fhèin ainm, air eagal gun sgaoilear o chèile sinn air aghaidh na talmhainn uile.
5. Agus thàinig an Tighearna a-nuas a dh'fhaicinn a' bhaile agus an tùir, a thog clann nan daoine.
6. Agus thubhairt an Tighearna, Feuch, is aon sluagh a tha ann, agus aon teanga aca uile; agus thòisich iad air seo a dhèanamh: agus a-nis cha bhacar dhiubh nì air bith a smaoinich iad a dhèanamh.
7. Thigibh, rachamaid sìos, agus cuireamaid an cainnt an sin thar a chèile, a-chum is nach tuig iad cainnt a chèile.
8. Mar sin sgaoil an Tighearna iad uaithe sin air aghaidh na talmhainn uile: agus sguir iad de thogail a' bhaile.
9. Uime sin thugadh Bàbel mar ainm air; do bhrìgh ann an sin gun do chuir an Tighearna thar a chèile cainnt na talmhainn uile: agus uaithe sin sgaoil an Tighearna iad air aghaidh na talmhainn uile.

Deutsch (German)
1. Es hatte aber alle Welt einerlei Zunge und Sprache.
2. Da sie nun zogen gen Morgen, fanden sie ein eben Land im Lande Sinear und wohneten daselbst,
3. und sprachen untereinander: Wohlauf, laßt uns Ziegel streichen und brennen! Und nahmen Ziegel zu Stein und Ton zu Kalk
4. und sprachen: Wohlauf, laßt uns eine Stadt und Turm bauen, des Spitze bis an den Himmel reiche, daß wir uns einen Namen machen; denn wir werden vielleicht zerstreuet in alle Länder.
5. Da fuhr der HERR hernieder, daß er sähe die Stadt und Turm, die die Menschenkinder baueten.
6. Und der HERR sprach: Siehe, es ist einerlei Volk und einerlei Sprache unter ihnen allen, und haben das angefangen zu tun; sie werden nicht ablassen von allem, das sie vorgenommen haben zu tun.
7. Wohlauf, laßt uns herniederfahren und ihre Sprache daselbst verwirren, daß keiner des andern Sprache vernehme.
8. Also zerstreuete sie der HERR von dannen in alle Länder, daß sie mußten aufhören, die Stadt zu bauen.
9. Daher heißt ihr Name Babel, daß der HERR daselbst verwirret hatte aller Länder Sprache und sie zerstreuet von dannen in alle Länder.

Elliniká (Modern Greek)
1. Και ητο πασα η γη μιας γλωσσης και μιας φωνης.
2. Και οτε εκινησαν απο της ανατολης, ευρον πεδιαδα εν τη γη Σεννααρ· και κατωκησαν εκει.
3. Και ειπεν ο εις προς τον αλλον, Ελθετε, ας καμωμεν πλινθους, και ας ψησωμεν αυτας εν πυρι· και εχρησιμευσεν εις αυτους η μεν πλινθος αντι πετρας, η δε ασφαλτος εχρησιμευσεν εις αυτους αντι πηλου.
4. Και ειπον, Ελθετε, ας οικοδομησωμεν εις εαυτους πολιν και πυργον, του οποιου η κορυφη να φθανη εως του ουρανου· και ας αποκτησωμεν εις εαυτους ονομα, μηπως διασπαρωμεν επι του προσωπου πασης της γης.
5. Κατεβη δε ο Κυριος δια να ιδη την πολιν και τον πυργον, τον οποιον ωκοδομησαν οι υιοι των ανθρωπων.
6. Και ειπεν ο Κυριος, Ιδου, εις λαος, και παντες εχουσι μιαν γλωσσαν, και ηρχισαν να καμνωσι τουτο· και τωρα δεν θελει εμποδισθη εις αυτους παν ο, τι σκοπευουσι να καμωσιν·
7. ελθετε, ας καταβωμεν και ας συγχυσωμεν εκει την γλωσσαν αυτων, δια να μη εννοη ο εις του αλλου την γλωσσαν.
8. Και διεσκορπισεν αυτους ο Κυριος εκειθεν επι του προσωπου πασης της γης· και επαυσαν να οικοδομωσι την πολιν.
9. Δια τουτο ωνομασθη το ονομα αυτης Βαβελ· διοτι εκει συνεχεεν ο Κυριος την γλωσσαν πασης της γης· και εκειθεν διεσκορπισεν αυτους ο Κυριος επι το προσωπον πασης της γης.

עברית (Hebrew) (Note - Right-to-left support doesn't exist, so this is definitely not correct)
1. וַיְהִי כָל-הָאָרֶץ, שָׂפָה אֶחָת, וּדְבָרִים, אֲחָדִים.
2. וַיְהִי, בְּנָסְעָם מִקֶּדֶם; וַיִּמְצְאוּ בִקְעָה בְּאֶרֶץ שִׁנְעָר, וַיֵּשְׁבוּ שָׁם.
3. וַיֹּאמְרוּ אִישׁ אֶל-רֵעֵהוּ, הָבָה נִלְבְּנָה לְבֵנִים, וְנִשְׂרְפָה, לִשְׂרֵפָה; וַתְּהִי לָהֶם הַלְּבֵנָה, לְאָבֶן, וְהַחֵמָר, הָיָה לָהֶם לַחֹמֶר.
4. וַיֹּאמְרוּ הָבָה נִבְנֶה-לָּנוּ עִיר, וּמִגְדָּל וְרֹאשׁוֹ בַשָּׁמַיִם, וְנַעֲשֶׂה-לָּנוּ, שֵׁם: פֶּן-נָפוּץ, עַל-פְּנֵי כָל-הָאָרֶץ.
5. וַיֵּרֶד יְהוָה, לִרְאֹת אֶת-הָעִיר וְאֶת-הַמִּגְדָּל, אֲשֶׁר בָּנוּ, בְּנֵי הָאָדָם.
6. וַיֹּאמֶר יְהוָה, הֵן עַם אֶחָד וְשָׂפָה אַחַת לְכֻלָּם, וְזֶה, הַחִלָּם לַעֲשׂוֹת; וְעַתָּה לֹא-יִבָּצֵר מֵהֶם, כֹּל אֲשֶׁר יָזְמוּ לַעֲשׂוֹת.
7. הָבָה, נֵרְדָה, וְנָבְלָה שָׁם, שְׂפָתָם--אֲשֶׁר לֹא יִשְׁמְעוּ, אִישׁ שְׂפַת רֵעֵהוּ.
8. וַיָּפֶץ יְהוָה אֹתָם מִשָּׁם, עַל-פְּנֵי כָל-הָאָרֶץ; וַיַּחְדְּלוּ, לִבְנֹת הָעִיר.
9. עַל-כֵּן קָרָא שְׁמָהּ, בָּבֶל, כִּי-שָׁם בָּלַל יְהוָה, שְׂפַת כָּל-הָאָרֶץ; וּמִשָּׁם הֱפִיצָם יְהוָה, עַל-פְּנֵי כָּל-הָאָרֶץ.

日本語 (Japanese)
1. そのころ、人類はみな同じことばを話していました。
2. 人口がしだいに増えると、人々は東の方に移って行きました。　こうしてバビロンの地に平原を見つけ、大ぜいの人がそこに住みついたのです。
3. やがて大都市を建設しようという話が持ち上がりました。　永遠に残る記念碑として、天にも届くような塔の神殿を造り、自分たちの力を見せてやろうというのです。
4. 「こうやって一致団結すれば、あちこちに散らされる心配もなくなるというものだ。」　そう豪語すると、人々はよく焼いた堅いれんがをうずたかく積み上げ、アスファルトを集めてモルタル代わりにしました。
5. 神様は降りて来て、人間どもが造っている町と塔をご覧になりました。
6. 「いやはや、なんということだ。　同じことばを使い、政治的にも一致して事にあたれば、人間はこれだけの事をやすやすとやり遂げてしまう。　この分だと、あとでどんな事をしでかすか、わかったものじゃない。　何でもやってのけるだろう。
7. こうなったら地上へ降りて行って、彼らが違ったことばを話すようにしてしまおう。　そうすれば、互いに何を言っているかわからなくなる。」
8. こうして、神様は人間を世界の各地に散らしました。　もう都市建設はできません。
9. この都の名がバベル〔「混乱」の意〕と呼ばれたのは、このためです。　つまり、神様がたくさんの国語を与えて人間を混乱させ、各地に広く散らしたのが、このバベルの地だったのです。

한국어 (Korean)
1. 온 땅의 구음이 하나이요 언어가 하나이었더라
2. 이에 그들이 동방으로 옮기다가 시날 평지를 만나 거기 거하고
3. 서로 말하되 '자, 벽돌을 만들어 견고히 굽자' 하고 이에 벽돌로 돌을 대신하며 역청으로 진흙을 대신하고
4. 또 말하되 '자, 성과 대를 쌓아 대 꼭대기를 하늘에 닿게 하여 우리 이름을 내고 온 지면에 흩어짐을 면하자' 하였더니
5. 여호와께서 인생들의 쌓는 성과 대를 보시려고 강림하셨더라
6. 여호와께서 가라사대 이 무리가 한 족속이요, 언어도 하나이므로 이같이 시작하였으니 이후로는 그 경영하는 일을 금지할 수 없으리로다
7. 자, 우리가 내려가서 거기서 그들의 언어를 혼잡케 하여 그들로 서로 알아듣지 못하게 하자 하시고
8. 여호와께서 거기서 그들을 온 지면에 흩으신 고로 그들이 성 쌓기를 그쳤더라
9. 그러므로 그 이름을 바벨이라 하니 이는 여호와께서 거기서 온 땅의 언어를 혼잡케 하셨음이라 여호와께서 거기서 그들을 온 지면에 흩으셨더라

Русский (Russian)
1. На всей земле был один язык и одно наречие.
2. Двинувшись с востока, они нашли в земле Сеннаар равнину и поселились там.
3. И сказали друг другу: наделаем кирпичей и обожжем огнем. И стали у них кирпичи вместо камней, а земляная смола вместо извести.
4. И сказали они: построим себе город и башню, высотою до небес, и сделаем себе имя, прежде нежели рассеемся по лицу всей земли.
5. И сошел Господь посмотреть город и башню, которые строили сыны человеческие.
6. И сказал Господь: вот, один народ, и один у всех язык; и вот что начали они делать, и не отстанут они от того, что задумали делать;
7. сойдем же и смешаем там язык их, так чтобы один не понимал речи другого.
8. И рассеял их Господь оттуда по всей земле; и они перестали строить город.
9. Посему дано ему имя: Вавилон, ибо там смешал Господь язык всей земли, и оттуда рассеял их Господь по всей земле.

Español (Spanish)
1. En ese entonces se hablaba un solo idioma en toda la tierra.
2. Al emigrar al oriente, la gente encontró una llanura en la región de Sinar, y allí se asentaron.
3. Un día se dijeron unos a otros: «Vamos a hacer ladrillos, y a cocerlos al fuego.» Fue así como usaron ladrillos en vez de piedras, y asfalto en vez de mezcla.
4. Luego dijeron: «Construyamos una ciudad con una torre que llegue hasta el cielo. De ese modo nos haremos famosos y evitaremos ser dispersados por toda la tierra.»
5. Pero el Señor bajó para observar la ciudad y la torre que los hombres estaban construyendo,
6. y se dijo: «Todos forman un solo pueblo y hablan un solo idioma; esto es sólo el comienzo de sus obras, y todo lo que se propongan lo podrán lograr.
7. Será mejor que bajemos a confundir su idioma, para que ya no se entiendan entre ellos mismos.»
8. De esta manera el Señor los dispersó desde allí por toda la tierra, y por lo tanto dejaron de construir la ciudad.
9. Por eso a la ciudad se le llamó Babel, porque fue allí donde el Señor confundió el idioma de toda la gente de la tierra, y de donde los dispersó por todo el mundo.

Finnish (Finnish)
1. Kotona että niin muodoin ainoa kielenkäyttö kotona aivan Kätkeä maahan puhuttu.
2. Jahka maastamuutto jotta idänpuoleinen , ihmiset perustaa arkinen kotona ala -lta Sinar , ja paikalla he toivoisin olevani pitää keskuspaikkanaan.
3. aika toiset toivoisin olevani mainittu jotta by : " me aari astuva jotta ehtiä tiili , ja jotta keittää heidät jotta ampua " Se koska kummuta koska he käytetty tiili sen sijaan -lta kivinen , ja asfaltoida sen sijaan -lta lääkeseos.
4. Aikaisin he mainittu : " me konstruoida kaupunki avulla kohota korkealle että ennättää ennen kuin taivas. Että elämäntapa me jälkisäädös pukea kuuluisa ja kaihtaa jotta olla haihtua luona aivan Kätkeä maahan "
5. Ainoastaan Gentlemanni alentaa jotta tarkastaa kaupunki ja kohota korkealle että ihmiset toivoisin olevani konstruktio ,
6, ja toivoisin olevani mainittu : " aivan asu ainoa kaupunki ja haastaa ainoa kielenkäyttö ; nyt kuluva on ainoa alku -lta sen tehdas , ja kaikki mikä he asento rikki se jälkisäädös olla etevä jotta ammentaa.
7. Se jälkisäädös olla vedonlyöjä kuin me alentaa jotta häkellyttää sen kielenkäyttö , joten että ei korkea ikä he aari sovittu kesken he itseänsä "
8. Nyt kuluva elämäntapa Gentlemanni haihtua heidät polveutua paikalla luona aivan Kätkeä maahan , ja sen tähden he antaa konstruoida kaupunki.
9. Ajaksi että ajatella järkevästi jotta kaupunki Lapsonen vieras jotta hänelle , koska se paikalla johon Gentlemanni hämillään kielenkäyttö -lta aivan ihmiset -lta Kätkeä maahan , ja johon haihtua heidät kaikkialla.

French (Français)
1. Dans cette à cette époque-là une unique langue dans toutes Terre était parlé.
2. Quand émigration aux l'Est , peupler établir une évident aux alentours de Sinar , et y ils étaient installé à.
3. Un jour de congé autre étions ont dit à une une : " nous allons à font briques , et à préparer leur aux tirer " Le était ainsi que ils utilisée briques au lieu de pierre , et asphalter au lieu de préparation.
4. Sous peu ils ont dit : " nous construire une ville à une tour thanksggiving arrive jusqu'à ce que les ciel. Thanksggiving voie nous vouloir devenir fameux et éviter à être déconcentrés près de toutes Terre "
5. Mais les Monsieur surbaissée à observer les ville et les tour thanksggiving les hommes étions construction ,
6, et étions ont dit : " toutes formel une unique ville et s'entretenir une unique langue ; ça c'est unique les origine de son usine , et tout se que ils présenter le pourront à obtenir.
7. Le seront mieux que nous inférieur à troubler son langue , pour que ne... plus ils sont compris entre ils eux-mêmes "
8. Ça voie les Monsieur déconcentrés leur de y près de toutes Terre , et par conséquent ils permettre construire les ville.
9. Pour thanksggiving raison aux ville Babel était appelé à lui , parce que le était y où les Monsieur troubler les langue de toutes les peupler de les Terre , et où déconcentrés leur partout.

Swedish (Svensk)
1. I så pass då en enkel språk i all Jord var talat.
2. När utvandringen till öster , folk grunda en slätt inne om områden av Sinar , och där de var baserat.
3. Pr. dag självaste var sa till en en : " vi er går till göra tegel , och till laga till dem till eld " Den var likaledes så de använd tegel i stället för sten , och asfalten i stället för blandning.
4. Snart de sa : " vi konstruera en stor stad med en torn så pass ankommer till himmelen. Så pass väg vi vill bli bekant och undvika till vara spred vid all Jord "
5. Utom gentlemannen sänkt till observera staden och tornen så pass mannen konstruerade ,
6, och var sa : " all form en enkel stad och tala en enkel språk ; den här er bara begynnelsen till dess arbeten , och allting vad de sätta ute den vilja kunde få.
7. Det er alt bättre än vi sänka till förvirra dess språk , så fakta ät ingen längre de er förstådd emellan de sig "
8. Den hår våg gentlemannen spred dem från där vid all Jord , och därför de låta konstruera staden.
9. Av den grund till stor stad Spenabarnen blev avlyst till honom , emedan den var där var gentlemannen förvirrat språken om alla folk om Jord , och var spred dem överallt.

Danish (Dansk)
1. I at så er der ikke mere en ugifte sprog i alt Forbinde med jorden var spoken.
2. Hvor udvandring hen til den øst , folk oprette en simpel i den område i Sinar , og der de var baseret.
3. EN dag andre var sagde hen til en en : " vi er igangværende hen til skabe klods , og hen til koge sig hen til den give ild " Den var ligeledes nemlig de anvendte klods istedet for sten , og asfalt istedet for sammenblanding.
4. Hurtigt de sagde : " vi opbygge en by hos en tårn at komme indtil den himmel. At måde vi vil blive bekendt og undgå at blive lette af al Forbinde med jorden ".
5. Men den Mand sænket hen til efterleve den by og den tårn at den mandskab var constructing,
6. og var sagde : " al skema en ugifte by og indtale en ugifte sprog ; indeværende er bare den begyndelsen til dens anlæg , og alt hvad de opstille sig vil være i stand til komme til.
7. Sig vil være bedre end vi ringere hen til sammenblande dens sprog , i den grad at ikke længere de er forstod imellem de dem selv ".
8. Herom den Mand lette sig af der af al Forbinde med jorden , og altså de lade opbygge den by.
9. Af den grund hen til den by Babel blev aflyst hen til sig , fordi den var der der hvor den Mand benovet den sprog alles den folk i den Forbinde med jorden , og der hvor lette sig over det hele.

English (English)
1. In that then a single language in all Earth was spoken.
2. When emigrating to the east, people found a plain in the region of Sinar, and there they were based.
3. A day others were said to an a: "We are going to make bricks, and to cook them to the fire." It was as well as they used bricks instead of stones, and asphalt instead of mixture.
4. Soon they said: "We construct a city with a tower that arrives until the sky. That way we will become famous and avoid to be dispersed by all Earth."
5. But the Gentleman lowered to observe the city and the tower that the men were constructing,
6, and were said: "All form a single town and speak a single language; this is only the beginning of its works, and everything what they set out it will be able to obtain.
7. It will be better than we lower to confuse its language, so that no longer they are understood between they themselves."
8. This way the Gentleman dispersed them from there by all Earth, and therefore they let construct the city.
9. For that reason to the city Babel was called to him, because it was there where the Gentleman confused the language of all the people of the Earth, and where dispersed them everywhere.
